The cube solver will generate a sequence of moves that will
solve any given cube (if solvable).  See rubdoc1.txt for
notes on the method.


MAIN MENU OPTIONS

Solve - solves three types of cubes (from submenu)

      random - generate a random cube to solve
      manual - allows you to scramble your own
      edit   - allows you to describe a real cube

        with option (prompts)

      stepmode - stops after each sequence

Manual - allows manipulation of cube (useful to see the
         effects of all the legal moves)

Scroll - allows scrolling of the history window

Help   - this stuff

Exit   - return to dos



NOTES ON NOTATION

The cube is unfolded so all six sides are visible.  All moves are
labeled by the side they affect.  The letters used are:

                 B - back
       L - left  U - up    R - right
                 F - front
                 D - down

Directions - + clockwise, - counterclockwise

Pieces are referred to by color.  The colors are:

         W - white, G - green, B - blue, Y - yellow,
         R - red (PC magenta), O - orange (PC red) 

Moves - three types

     Side moves - basic, represented by single side letter
                  ex. +r, -f
     Rotations - rotate entire cube, preface side with r
                 ex. -ru, +rr (used to exploit symmetry)
     Sequences - sequence of moves by name ex. +ct1
                 (use manual mode to learn effects)



SOLVING A REAL CUBE

If you have an old cube which never got unscrambled, select solve and edit.
Type in lines of letters separated by spaces corresponding to the layout
of the cube used in the display.  The letters should be the first letter
of the colors on your cube.

(WARNING - if you make a mistake entering the tiles
the solve program might never find a solution.  The
program does not check for legal tile configurations.)

Check the rubik.ini file to make sure a logfile is specified, such as
rubik.log.  The logfile will have a transcript of the session which
can be used to apply the moves to your cube.  You can check your
progress at each stage.



SOLVE DISPLAY FIELDS

Stage - the current stage (see rubdoc1.txt)

Target - the piece (in color notation) being solved for

Rotation - the chosen sequence of moves for the current goal


